# Continued

I write every day: Emails, articles for the Ontario Library Association, proposals. And I can always tell when I am struggling with what to say: I procrastinate. I’ve been procrastinating about my book manuscript for seven years now, despite the fact that I have a book offer. I know why: I believe I have no idea how to write a book. Now, I have been getting advice along the way from folks who have written books before (including William Germano) and my sense of how to write in this new genre is increasing. But I’m still unsure so I welcomed the opportunity to force myself to write something related to the project for a week.

I did have to force myself (clearly a synonym for wrestle) because all I could think was, “I don’t know if these ideas are any good.” Now, I did accumulate ideas and content. I now have a much better idea of how to write the literature review section (which thankfully, is much shorter in a book than a thesis) and I know that I need to trust my instincts as a storyteller. However, to date I have just written my ideas in bulleted lists rather than complete sentences that, with the erasure of the bullets, could become fully formed paragraphs. That’s the next step.

To make this move, I submitted an application to an online writing coffeehouse. I met American historian Alexi Garrett at the Archival Kismet conference last Saturday. I was moderating the session in which she was presenting, and, during the Q&A, I asked the presenters about book writing because three of the four were in the process of writing a book or had written one before. Alexi mentioned that she was hosting a From dissertation to manuscript writing group and I’ve asked to join in. I’d really like to keep the momentum going and to move “from bullets to paragraphs.”

I have enough experience writing to know that if I keep plugging away and trying to clarify my thinking, then the revisions will come. I’ve been told that all I have to do is to produce a first draft and then trust my editor (which I do). I’d like to see my work be transformed in this way and it’s part of an evolving process: I’ve used my research in a thesis, a three-minute thesis, and a documentary film already. The book seems like the logical next project. I have no doubt that a daily practice will get me there. I just have to keep regulating how I feel and day-to-day attention to my ideas will get me there.

Perhaps I need to think about writing poems for each chapter as a way to unblock.
